So we're getting something that's
closer and closer to a game here.
Now, we need to add some UI and
that seems like a really
prudent idea because I got
confused by there being no UI.
So in Unity,
UI exists as 2D sprite-based graphics with
what's called a Canvas component
as the parent game object.
So everything that's UI exists
underneath a Canvas, and
a Canvas can have one of
three different render modes.
So in games, you've probably seen
a couple of different examples of UI.
You've seen maybe UI that appears on
the screen, and that's in what's called
a screen space overlay that just renders
UI elements directly on top of the screen.
There's also a screen space camera which
is very similar but subtly different.
It renders UI elements at
a given distance in 3D
space rather than 2D space
in front of the camera.
So that can be really useful for
adding depth and perspective effects.
So if you maybe want something to
always be in front of the camera, but
maybe you want a UI element that's
kind of tilted a certain way and
has the 3D perspective of the camera,
you can use screen space camera.
Finally, there is world space.
So you can put Canvases
anywhere in the scene,
they don't necessarily have to be in
screen space right in front of the camera.
And a world space Canvas will render
UI elements as if they were 2D
billboards in the scene in 3D space.
So that's useful for
things like health bars or
speech bubbles that maybe appear
above a 3D character in a scene.
So for this game,
we're gonna use screen space overlay but
it is possible to achieve a wide variety
of effects using those other render modes.
So we've got a little bit of
scene setup here for the UI.
We want the player score
on the upper left,
the opponent score in the upper right,
a timer at the top of the screen,
and then some game over
text in the middle.
So I will switch over to Unity,
these values are just here for
your own reference later on, but
this is all stuff that
we're going to do in Unity.
We're gonna go to the Hierarchy and
create a new UI Canvas And
we can just leave it as Canvas,
that's fine.
And then underneath of that,
we're going to create the timer first.
So we will go to the create menu again,
UI and we wanna choose TextMeshPro,
and I'll call this timer.
And in the scene view,
this will actually be quite large.
But if we go over to the game view,
you'll see that it appears
normal size because this Canvas by default
is going to use screen space overlay.
So for our timer, we want this
to be at the top of the screen.
So we could position this using these X,
Y, and Z transform controls.
This is actually what's
called a Rect Transform
which is inheriting from
the transform class.
So this game object still
technically has a transform,
it's not breaking those rules, but
the transform controls look a little bit
different because it's inheriting,
it's slightly different.
So here we could type in these values, but
we have this little handy widget here,
we can click on this and
we can set the anchor
position of this UI element.
And I want it to be at the top.
If we hold down Option on Mac or
if you hold down Alt on Windows,
you'll notice that this menu changes.
And so we want to hold down Option or
Alt, and
what that's going to do is not only
set the anchor of this UI element,
it's also going to actually
position it as well.
So if we click that top center one,
then it's going to place
it in the top center.
And that's not exactly where I wanted it,
I wanted it a little bit
further away from the top.
So instead of -25 for the y position,
I'm going to say -50.
The width of 200 is fine, but
I want the height to be 100,
so we have a little bit more space for
the text.
Now down here on
the TextMeshPro component,
there's a couple of things
we need to change as well.
There's a font asset that I wanna change,
so let's switch that out.
And I have a specific font in
here already, it's called Oswald,
I'll select that, and
that's going to be our timer text.
And then I'm going to check
Auto Size to be true,
and then this text I want centered for
its alignment.
Now this text is going to
be a timer ultimately, so
I'm going to just give
it something that looks
a little bit more like a timer like that.
And that will be its default text.
And that's really just for our own
purposes, so that when the game starts or
when we're working in Unity rather we kind
of know that that's the timer visually.
So I'm going to duplicate that.
Because this has a lot
of the properties that
we're gonna want for the player score.
But I'll change the name of
this to Player Score, and
then again, I'm going to click this
little gizmo in the Rect Transform.
I'm gonna hold down
the Option key on Mac or
Alt on Windows, and
then we're going to click
this upper left corner for
the player score.
I try not to change that to player score,
I think I need to type that and
hit Enter, okay?
So that's going to be the player score,
of course, we want that to
be 0 to start out with, and then we
wanna change this to a different color.
Now we haven't assigned materials yet
and the player is going to
be a gold material, so
we wanna change this to a yellow color.
You can choose whatever color you want, it
doesn't really affect anything, but I have
a specific hexadecimal value I've picked
out if you wanna follow along exactly.
That is FFCE00, so
that'll be this nice gold color.
And I want this to be a little
bit more toward the left.
Let me see how far off-screen I can get.
That's too far,
maybe if I set this to a value of 50,
something like that,
I think that should work for the x.
And then we need the opponent score.
So this is gonna be the same thing,
I'm gonna duplicate
player score,
we'll rename this to Opponent Score.
And then we want this on
the opposite side of the screen,
so I'll click this gizmo,
hold down Option, and hit the upper right.
And because this text is over in the upper
right, well, actually we can leave
these centered, so never mind,
we'll leave both of those centered.
But this is in the upper right,
let's say we put player score at 50,
so we should put this at -50,
so it's evenly spaced.
And then we wanna change the color,
so the opponent's
color on its material is going to
be kind of this bluish color and
the x value for
that I have picked out us 4583FF.
And then finally,
we have the game over text.
So I'm going to duplicate the timer
because that's closest to what
the Game Over Text is going to be like,
and we'll call this Game Over Text.
And then that's going to be
stretched across the entire screen.
So when we're placing this and
want to stretch this in both directions,
the horizontal and vertical,
again I'm holding down Option
to get this positioning, and
I'll put that in the center.
And by default, this text should
say Collect more cubes than
your opponent!Press SPACE.
To start.
Now these fonts are kind of huge,
I set this to auto size, but
the auto sizing also has a max value.
So I'm going to reduce that max value,
right now it looks like
it's set to 72 by default.
Let's just drop that down.
And actually, I do want a line break
there, I want this to be on the next line.
So let's maybe drop that down to
something like 32 for the game over text.
And then for timer player score and
opponent score, I'm actually
going to multi select these because
they all have a TextMeshPro component.
I can modify the values of these that are
the same across all three game objects.
So let's maybe set this
to something like 50 for
the max auto size option, and
that will resize all three of them.